[Transcript missing]
In this session we're going to talk about
supporting the latest and greatest video
compression formats in your application.
We're going to start with a brief
bit of technology background,
and then we're going to talk about
how to access this stuff in your
applications using our most modern APIs.
We're going to support this
with a lot of sample code,
which is already available
for you to download.
If you go to the page for this session,
you can log in and download all
that stuff right now and look at
it while we're talking about it.
We have a great new codec
in QuickTime 7 and Tiger.
It's called H.264.
It's a standards-based codec that's the
result of a joint effort by two major
standards bodies with a bunch of experts,
international collaboration.
Collaboration in particular
between the experts from ISO,
the International Organization for
Standardization,
which brought us the MPEG codecs,
and the ITU,
the International Telecommunications
Union,
who developed the H.261 and
H.263 video conferencing codecs.
It's been chosen for
a number of standards.
It's been supported by a number of
[Transcript missing]
It's got a lot of names.
You'll see people calling it AVC,
which stands for Advanced Video Coding.
You'll see people calling it JVT,
which stands for Joint Video Team,
which refers to its joint heritage.
You'll see it called MPEG-4 Part 10
because that's the name of the standard.
Apple uses the name H.264 which
is another of the choices.
All of these are referring
to the same thing.
So this is our new video
codec in QuickTime 7.
We put a lot of energy
into making it work.
I'd like to give you a brief demo of it
over on this wonderful demo machine here.
In 20 days and 20 nights,
the Emperor Penguin will march to a place
so extreme it supports no other life.
Excitement, adventure,
and really wild things.
So this is one of the
videos from our site.
If you have QuickTime Player Pro you
can export to H.264 yourself.
It's under Movie to QuickTime Movie and
if you click Options there's another
dialog that has a list of settings.
The video settings,
H.264 is one of the choices
in the compressor list.
And down here you'll see that we've,
if you've seen this dialog before,
you've seen that we've rearranged it a
bit in order to support our new features.
A major new feature for H.264 encoding
is a feature called multi-pass encoding,
intelligent multi-pass encoding.
This is what we use to get the
best quality in our encodes.
Let's come back to slides.
Since this is the year
of high definition,
I wanted to point out that Apple actually
has been delivering quite a number
of codecs which are high def ready.
As well as H.264,
which is our premier delivery codec.
This year in Final Cut Pro 5,
Final Cut Pro Studio,
we delivered support for,
native support for HDV.
HDV is an MPEG-2 19 megabit
IPB based code format.
It's constant bit rate.
It's supported by a new
breed of FireWire cameras,
of HDV cameras from some manufacturers.
And we have native support
for this in Final Cut Pro 5.
iMovie HD and
Final Cut Express HD support HDV by
converting it to an intermediate format
called the Apple Intermediate Codec.
But these aren't the only ones.
We've also supported a
format called DVC Pro HD,
which is a 100 megabit DV-style,
DCT-based high-def format since
Final Cut Pro 4.5 last year.
In Panther we introduced Pixlet,
and for some time we've supported
uncompressed HD playback if you have
a machine that has sufficient I.O.
bandwidth.
These movies have
exceptionally high data rates,
up in the hundreds of
megabytes per second.
Now, the last four of these
codecs are iframe only.
H.264 and HDV use B-frames,
and some of you may be saying,
"What's that again?" So,
let's have a little bit of technology
background on what B-frames are
and why you might need to worry
about them and why they're important.
Video codecs present you with a
trade-off between bit rate and quality.
If you want a better quality,
you generally have to use more bits.
If you want to reduce the bit rate,
you have to sacrifice the
quality to some extent.
So there's this curve,
and we're constantly trying to move
that curve better and better towards
better quality at lower bit rates.
We do this by adding more tricks.
Smart people who write codecs
come up with more tricks.
Some of those tricks are
entirely inside the codec,
but some of them involve...
aspects that need to be taken care of
by parts that are outside of the codec,
by other things,
other parts of the system that
deal with compressed frames.
Suppose you want to compress some video.
Here's a clip of me parking my car.
Prosaic.
Well, you can compress each
frame independently.
This is called iframes or
keyframes or sync samples.
In this case,
every frame is self-contained,
so random access is fast,
but the bitrate isn't too great.
[Transcript missing]
So you can improve compression
performance substantially by using one
frame as a base for encoding another.
In the example I'm illustrating here,
we're describing frame 5 in
terms of frame 4 as a base.
First, we describe the areas that
are similar to frame 4.
Now the orange area in this diagram
is the piece that's the same pixels
from the same place in frame 4.
The green bit in the middle is
where we have the same pixels,
but they kind of moved over
from where they were in frame 4.
This is called motion compensation.
Now, that doesn't completely
describe the scene.
There's still a fix-up that has
to be made because not everything
is completely stationary.
The reflection on the car
doesn't move with the car.
It's got to be adjusted.
The tire is moving,
so you have to adjust the
image for that as well.
This is called the residue,
this fix-up image.
Now there's a whole strip of
the image that wasn't in frame 4
because it was out of the picture.
It's just moved in.
This strip has to be coded
from scratch by the residue.
So this is what it looks like if
we encode the last five frames of
those six using difference frames,
or that is using motion compensation.
Difference frames use information
from a previous frame.
They're also known as
P-Frames for predicted.
This gives you better compression because
Motion compensation is extremely
compact relative to describing
something from scratch.
Another way of looking at it is
to say that each of these frames
depends on the previous one because
each frame is described in terms
of the previous one as a base.
That means that if you
want to display frame 6,
you have to start with frame 1 and
then decode all of the ones in between.
So we call this IP when you
have iframes and pframes.
It gives you better
compression than iframes only,
but random access can be slow.
For example, to get to that last frame
you had to decode all six.
It could take some time.
Also, another thing to note is that
images that appear gradually have
to be constructed incrementally.
Like the last image in that sequence,
when you see it,
it's been constructed from
strips in five different frames.
That might not always be the
most efficient way to do things.
So suppose for a moment that
we encoded the first frame in
that sequence as an iframe,
self-contained,
and then went and encoded the
last frame in the sequence as a
pframe directly based on frame one.
Then we could pick a frame in the middle
and we could encode it using motion
compensation partly from the frame before
it and partly from the frame after it.
Well,
then you can see we can encode it almost
completely using motion compensation.
And in fact,
we can do that for a whole bunch
of frames in between those,
and then mostly encode it using motion
compensation so the bit rate is improved.
These are called B-frames.
B stands for bidirectional prediction.
B-frames refer to information from frames
that will be displayed in the future.
They may also use information
from a previous ILP frame.
As you can see, the bitrate has improved.
Using B-frames as well as IMP frames
gives you better compression
when objects appear gradually.
It also gives you somewhat
faster random access.
To decode and display any of the frames
in the middle from a starting standpoint,
you only have to decode
the frames at the ends,
not any of the others.
Also, other frames can be skipped when,
for example, you don't have enough
CPU to play at full rate,
or you're playing fast forward.
The jargon for this is
temporal scalability.
One weird thing that happens
when you have B frames though,
is that the order the frames are
decoded in is not the same as the
order the frames are displayed in.
Because the codec isn't able to
predict what's happening in the future,
it has to use information
that is already decoded.
This reordering is why other parts of
the system need to understand about
B-frames in order to support them.
So, some of you are saying that you all
knew all of that already because
you've been doing some work with
MPEG and it's all familiar to you.
Well, there is a twist.
You guys may know that you can
implement this kind of semantic using
what's called a one-frame delay.
And you build a small finite
state machine and you do certain
transitions when you see that
the frame type is I or P or B.
And that completely defines
the dependency structure.
Now this is true for MPEG-2's
IPB pattern because only one future
frame can ever be held at one time.
This is not true for the
general case of H.264.
In fact,
the H.264 encoder has allowed a lot more
flexibility than previous frame patterns.
P frames can use more than
one prior frame for decode.
B frames can use more than
two prior or future frames.
Not all I frames reset the decoder.
We have a new name for these.
These are IDR frames
in H.264 terminology.
It stands for Instantaneous
Decoder Reset.
P and B frames can depend
on other B frames and some
I and P frames may be dropped.
So where you had a pattern that
if you knew what to look for was
fairly regular for MPEG-2 IPB,
the general case for H.264 could
be a whole lot more complicated and
unpredictable and you couldn't just
derive it from the IP and B letters.
So instead of trying to store the IP and
B letters and using that as our basis,
We identified that it was
important to record the
following information per frame.
Number one, is it a sync sample?
Not every iframe is a sync sample now,
because decoding an iframe,
although you could do it alone
based on no other information,
the following P and B frames may need
information that's from previous frames.
Number two, is it droppable?
Not all B frames are
going to be droppable now,
and some I and P frames
might be droppable.
Number 3:
In what order are frames to be decoded?
And possibly you might have some hints
about what timing they should be decoded.
And number 4: At what time should
each frame be displayed?
So, the moral of this little background
bit is that the dependencies between
frames are becoming weirder and weirder,
but it's all in the cause of
improved compression performance.
IPB means that frames are stored
and decoded in a funny order,
and some parts of the system
need to be aware of that.
And convenient rules that
were true for MPEG-2,
like the one frame delay,
don't work in H.264.
They're not actually sufficient
to handle the general case.
So let's talk about what this means for
QuickTime and for developers like you.
Let's take a look at what
a video track looks like so
that we can describe the API.
At the basic level,
a video track contains a list of frames.
Now in some of our APIs you'll
see we say samples.
In some of our APIs you'll
see we say frames.
We use sample in APIs that need to
be more generic because they might
refer to things that other than
video they might refer to sound.
But in our video APIs we
tend to use the word frame.
And in fact when we're talking
about video we're using frame
and sample interchangeably.
Each sample has some timing
and dependency information,
and they're stored in decode order.
You'll notice that these frames
are kind of in a different order
from how you'd expect them to,
because the car is jerking in and
out of the scene as it moves along.
In the cases where the decode order
is different from the display order,
we also introduce information
called display offsets,
which are how we describe
that reordering for the codec.
The display offset is simply
the difference between the
display time and the decode time.
Specifically,
it's display time minus decode time.
So by interpreting the decode times
and adding the display offsets,
we know when each frame
should be displayed.
And now we have the frames from that
portion of compressed video that
can be decoded and displayed in the
order that makes sense to a user.
Now in general,
those display offsets don't
need to be exposed to the user.
They don't need to
know about them at all.
When the user wants to
rearrange portions of media,
they use a different mechanism.
They use the edit mechanism in QuickTime.
Edits describe the segments of
video or other kinds of media that
have been brought into the movie's
presentation at various times.
So for example, in this case,
if the user decided to trim down to just
include the end part of that parking
sequence and then follow it with a
piece where the car's door is open,
the next scene, whatever that is,
then we would have an edit that
described insertion of that
piece of video into the track,
into the movie's presentation.
Broadly, our APIs are divided into
high-level APIs and low-level APIs.
The high-level APIs work
on tracks and movies.
The low-level APIs work
on media and samples.
So, we have high-level
APIs that implement cut,
copy, and paste using the clipboard.
We also have high-level APIs called
track segment editing APIs,
which lets you insert pieces--segments
of media from movie to movie
or track to track directly,
to delete, to rescale,
and otherwise manipulate
bits of--bits of movies.
These work without using the clipboard.
The clipboard belongs to the user,
and they get antsy when it
gets trashed unexpectedly.
So, if you're trying to
programmatically manipulate
media with the high-level APIs,
you should use the track
segment APIs rather than cut,
copy, and paste.
Beneath that we have the media
manipulation APIs which let
you access individual samples,
and we have the image compression
and decompression APIs which let you
compress and decode video frames.
Now most of the plumbing changes we've
needed to make in order to support
H.264 have been in these low-level APIs.
Specifically,
the changes we've made in order to
support H.264 have been to support
frame reordering by adding display
offsets of various levels of API.
We've also started to store
new dependency information.
We have new sample flags,
such as one that says that
a given frame is droppable.
Applications that access individual video
frames must migrate to our new APIs if
they want to access this information
in H.264 or other codecs with B-frames.
We made this a deliberate design
decision because we wanted to avoid a
situation where a user's content with
one of these new codecs would be damaged
and messed up by an application that
failed to preserve the display offsets.
These API changes are part of an
evolution that you'll see happening
across the QuickTime landscape.
We're moving away from handles.
We're moving towards core foundation
style objects because retain counting
helps you manage object lifetimes.
We're moving away from QuickDraw.
In place of Pixmaps as a
place to store image data,
you'll see we're using
core video pixel buffers.
And as part of this plumbing we're able
to do things in a multi-buffer manner.
This allows us to do more
pipelining and have more
asynchrony between various stages.
In place of GWolds and GraphPorts
as a way to describe where
a movie should be played,
we're moving towards a thing
called the visual context,
which you would have seen a bunch
of detail on in this morning's 207
session on a high performance video.
The visual contexts give you
advantages like being able to do
convenient hookups with OpenGL.
If you've seen any of the audio sessions,
then you know we're moving away from
Sound Manager towards Core Audio,
which gives us benefits
like high resolution,
high fidelity, high definition audio.
We're moving away from FS specs.
We have a bunch of APIs to replace
those which all use data references.
This gives us access to
Unicode and long file names.
And there are two other
transformations that we're going
through which I wanted to touch on.
We're moving towards 64-bit time values
and towards 64-bit sample numbers.
These enable us to have very high
time scales and very long movies.
Now,
those transitions are not complete yet.
Not all the plumbing is completed.
But you'll notice that we use 64-bit
integers in the new APIs because all of
the compilers support them natively now.
There's no reason for us not to.
There is a tech note,
particularly on the FS spec to
data reference transition that you
should make in your applications.
It's tech note number 2140.
So that's now it for
theory in this session.
The rest of it is going to be practice.
We're going to show you how to do
things using our favorite modern APIs,
a bunch of high-level demonstrations,
a bunch of low-level demonstrations,
and then I'm going to finish it out
by showing you how to write your
own codec with the new codec APIs.
Now as I said, these samples are already
available for download.
You can follow along with us as you like.
We won't tell you when to turn the page.
To start off the high level demos
I'd like to introduce for the
first time on stage speaking,
David Eldred.
All right, thanks a lot, Sam.
So as Sam has described,
we have all of these high level
APIs that are available to you that will
transparently take care of all of the
complexities he's been talking about.
These APIs, as Sam has said,
include using the clipboard to do cut,
copy, and paste.
This is user level operation.
The Insert Segment APIs,
there's both movie and track
versions of these APIs.
They're available in the C and
the Cocoa QuickTime interfaces.
Saving movies.
You don't have to worry about all
of the complexities of B-frames
when you're dealing with saving.
This includes saving as reference movies,
saving as self-contained movies,
or flattening movies.
and exporting movies to whatever,
to various formats that we support,
all high level APIs.
So let's go to Demo Machine 1
and we'll take a look at a
high level editing sample.
So here I've got three clips.
These are all HD size H.264 clips.
Let's actually open them
in QuickTime Player.
I have a question.
Jim, he looks happy.
And these are all clips
of QuickTime engineers
doing what they do best,
standing around talking.
But I'd like to edit them
into a coherent composition.
So I've got a little
application here that does that.
Very simple.
Uses QtKit.
And it's so simple I'm just going
to step through it with you.
So first thing we're going to do is
we're going to create Qt movie objects
to represent the three source movies.
And we're going to create a QtMovie
object to represent our target movie.
And we set an attribute on
that to make it editable.
And using the insert
segment of movie API,
we're going to insert a segment defined
by a QT time range from our source
movie into our destination movie.
And finally,
we write out the destination movie.
So this example is so trivial
where I don't believe the
sample code is available to you.
If you're really interested
in getting your hands on it,
we can give it to you in the lab.
And let's see what we've made.
There we are.
All right, back to slides.
[Transcript missing]
And we could have added
together anything there.
That could be DV content,
that could be H.264, MPEG-4,
whatever codecs QuickTime supports,
or even other track types that
QuickTime supports for editing.
So there's your first simple
example of high level.
Editing.
And now we're going to look at an
example where we're doing multi-pass
export using a custom data source.
So,
Multipass Export is new in QuickTime 7,
as Sam pointed out.
It gives you the highest quality
H.264 compression possible.
And in this example,
we're going to use the high-level
APIs to allow QuickTime to
present its compression UI.
Using the custom sources,
we're just going to provide the
source data frames and QuickTime will
handle everything else for us.
It'll handle the multi-pass
configuration of the codec,
it'll handle the
compressor configuration,
it'll write out the file for us,
flattening, hinting, everything else.
So how does this example work?
First we're going to create
a movie export component.
Movie export component has video source
procedures and audio source procedures.
We just have to hook our movie up to it.
In this case we're going to have a
movie playing into a visual context.
And that visual context is going to
be using core image to do some video,
some messing around with the video.
And that's going to be the source
for our video source procedure.
Since we're video people,
we don't care about audio.
We're just gonna plug the
audio directly through.
So, off to this demo.
Demo machine one, please.
So, this, how many of you were in
session 207 earlier today?
A few of you.
So this is going to look familiar to you.
The
So I won't go into great detail about how
the visual context is configured and how
we're hooking up the core image filter.
If you have more questions about that,
come and see us in the lab.
But first a quick demo of
what this application does.
So we've got our favorite
car driving along.
We've got a core image filter
we can change the settings of.
And I like it a little darker.
Go over here, make it,
that's about right.
Change the color some.
So this is how I like it.
So when I click the export button,
we're first prompted for where
we want to save the movie.
We'll just replace that one.
And in the settings dialog-- so
we're bringing up the standard
QuickTime compression settings
dialog from our application.
And here we're going to choose
H.264 and multi-pass encoding.
And we're going to allow frame reordering
because we're using high-level APIs.
We don't care if there's B frames.
And we go ahead with these settings.
And as you see, it's doing several
passes through the video.
And
So for each pass through the video,
our data proc is being
called once for each frame.
So if this had 100 frames of
video and it did five passes,
we'd be called 500 times.
So it opens up our resulting
movie in QuickTime player.
Vroom.
And there it is.
So let's take a look at the code.
So we're gonna look at this
pretty quickly since we've seen
it before and of course come to
the lab if you want more details.
But we're gonna focus on what happens
when that export button is clicked.
So as you can see,
First thing that happens is we prompt you
for the file you want to save this as.
And we open a movie export component.
That's as easy as describing the
component and opening an instance.
Two, two procs that we have
inside our application,
the video track property proc
and the video track data proc.
We pass,
we create UPPs from these functions
and we pass these in to the the
exporter component we just opened.
And since we're video people,
we're just going to use the standard
audio source procs from the source movie
and add those to the movie exporter.
We invoke the standard
compression dialog.
Nothing too complicated there.
We ask the movie exporter
that we open to do it.
Movie export do user dialog.
Assuming that they don't cancel,
we are going to start our export with the
movie Export from Procedures to DataRef.
At this point,
we begin having data pulled from us.
Our data proc that we provide
is going to be called.
- And we'll take a quick
look at this Dataproc.
So this is the procedure that we defined.
It simply calls our
export frame procedure.
And inside that export frame procedure,
The parameters that we're called
with include a current time.
That's the time for the frame
that it wants the data for.
And in this application we just
set that time on our movie,
task the movie to get it to draw.
Do a little bit of application
specific stuff to get it to render
that current time onto the screen.
And then it's going to do a
readback from that screen buffer.
Since we're doing this core image filter
and we want you to have visual feedback,
we're rendering this to the screen.
And once we read back that data,
we just fill in the parameters
that are provided as part of
this call and return that data.
That's it.
That's how easy it is to
use movie export procedures.
So, yeah, let's go back to slides.
So there's a few things to note here.
When you're using custom source
procedures like this and you're
doing multi-pass compression,
you must return the same data for a given
frame on each pass through the movie.
That's very critical,
otherwise you'll throw things off.
And if you've got very slow rendering,
you may want to consider exporting
to an intermediate movie first,
an uncompressed intermediate movie.
That will make the entire process
a little quicker since it has to do
several passes through the movie.
And if you have very slow processing,
that can take a while.
That can also be handy if
your manipulations that you're
doing on the video are for
some reason non-deterministic,
you can't guarantee you're
going to return the same thing.
render to an intermediate movie first.
So with that,
I'm going to bring Sam back in
to dive into the low levels.
Where has he gone?
There he is.
SAM BAKER: Thanks a lot.
I need a drink.
Thank heavens.
So, some apps need to dip below those
high-level APIs and access things
directly at the frame level.
For example,
if you want to do more complicated,
more advanced editing,
if you want to use effects,
if you need fine-grained control,
all sorts of reasons,
you may need to go down
to those low-level APIs.
Let's talk about them.
To access one frame at a time,
we should call the new
API GetMediaSample2.
This is a replacement for an old API,
GetMediaSample.
To get information about
multiple frames at once,
you should call
CopyMediaMutableSampleTable.
This is a replacement for a
suite of APIs with names like
Get Media Sample Reference,
Get Media Sample References,
and Get Media Sample References 64.
The old APIs, the old-- that suite of old
APIs used an array of C structs
that you would allocate.
Each time we changed the API,
we had to introduce a whole new struct,
and you had to migrate all of
this code over to the new struct,
and it was a bit of a mess.
The new API gives you an opaque
object called a QT sample table,
which you call-- which you get the
information out of through accesses.
That means that we'll be able to
introduce more information without
having to completely reinvent the world.
The corresponding APIs for adding
samples to media are AddMediaSample2,
which is a replacement
for AddMediaSample,
and AddSampleTableToMedia,
which is a replacement for
AddMediaSampleReference,
AddMediaSampleReferences,
and AddMediaSampleReferences64.
Those older APIs will return errors
if you call on movies with B frames.
Again,
it's deliberate in order to protect
users from having their movies
damaged by failure to copy it across
the frame reordering infrastructure.
information.
In QuickTime 7 we have a brand
new decompression API called
the ICM Decompression Session.
To use it, to create one,
you provide a dictionary that
describes the pixel buffers
that you want to get out of it.
Then you push in the compressed frames
and your callback function is called with
buffers that contain those new compressed
frames and with other status messages.
So, let's go and take a look at
that on the demo machine.
Let's take a look at that
movie that we looked at before.
The traditional way to show the
internal structure of movies was to
use an application called Dumpster.
Dumpster's been around since 1991.
It's quite venerable and you
can still download it from
our developer tools page.
We've updated it so that it is
aware of the new information
in QuickTime 7's movie files.
And we can take a look at that here.
For example,
this is the information about the
video track and the video media.
And if I click on this,
it'll open up the information
about the sample descriptions.
You probably can't read this.
It says H.264 here.
And if I open up this,
you probably can't read this either.
But it says that all of the
samples have the same duration,
125.
And even if you can read this,
it's really hard to visualize.
This is the list of display offsets
or composition offsets for the movie.
And they're plus or minus 125.
Not very visual,
so I thought it might be kind of neat
to have a sample application which
shows this in a more visual way.
It's called Movie Video Chart.
It's already available for download.
You could be doing this yourself.
Let's take a look at that March of the
Penguins movie with this application.
You can see thumbnails for
individual frames here.
And you can see them in three columns.
Let's move past that green thing
we always have at the beginning
of the movie so we can find some
interesting pieces of video.
Where are we here?
I like this bit here.
Here we go.
So, thumbnails of all of these
high definition frames.
This application is decoding
these high def frames so they can
display little thumbnails of them.
And this is the same as the diagram
I just showed you a little while ago.
At the bottom we have
frames in decode order.
And you can see that they're in decode
order because the penguin is going
forward and back and forward and back.
And then above that you can see
how the frames are reordered by the
display offsets into display order.
And here the penguin is jumping up,
up and away.
Above that is a place where we have
information about the track edits that
a user might have used in order to
construct the movie as they wanted.
In this case the edit is rather dull,
it's just the whole movie,
it's all there, but the application
displays it all the same.
At the bottom you can see more
information about the samples.
You can see the data
size of these frames,
and I've also marked out which ones are
droppable and which ones are keyframes.
It actually says "sync" here
when we find a keyframe.
Keyframes are rare here.
Well, let's take a look at another movie.
Here's the movie that
David just showed us that he edited
together from some high definition clips.
Here's Tim and here's Jim and here's me.
Let's zoom out so we can
have another look at this,
because the edits are much
longer than the display offsets.
You can see this piece at the top here,
these three different colors.
I've chosen a different
color for each of the edits.
And you can see that we've brought
together three clips of video.
You can also see a
couple of other things.
The keyframes are actually marked in red.
And none of those clips
began with a keyframe.
This frame was about four or
five frames after the keyframe.
This edit was a few frames after as well.
So there's some extra media information
that we've needed to include in
this movie that we constructed
by bringing together these clips.
So there's some extra media information
that we've needed to include in
this movie that we constructed
by bringing together these clips.
In order to prime the
decompressor for displaying the
frames that you do want to see,
we had to bring back the key
frame and the intermediate frames.
But by using the track edits,
those frames are removed from
the composition that has been
created at the user level.
Now, if you have a very long
number of keyframes-- sorry,
a very long number of difference
frames between the keyframe
and the beginning of the edit,
then playing across these cuts might
be hard and might take a lot of CPU,
and maybe you don't have enough CPU.
But in this case,
we were able to play across
this because we have a nice,
fast machine.
So this application is
a piece of sample code.
Let's take a quick look at it.
It is an HIV-based application.
It's a composited HIV.
It has a single main view
that draws all of that art,
including all of the thumbnails.
I'll show a couple of
important points about it.
We get information about
individual samples in groups.
We use copy media mutable sample
table on a range and it gives
us back a sample table object.
Then we walk along the sample table
object and call these accesses to get
the information out that we're going
to display in the user interface one,
in the chart.
In order to display the thumbnails,
we have to decode those frames.
To decode the frames,
we create one of these new
decompression session objects.
To create a decompression session,
you build this dictionary
that says the width,
the height,
and the pixel format that you want.
And there's other information
you might put in as well.
You also provide the callback
function that you want to have
called when frames are emitted
and other information happens.
And you also provide
the image description.
Once we've created the
decompression session,
we can decode frames with it.
To load those frames,
we call getMediaSample twice.
Once to find out the size of the sample,
then we allocate some memory,
and then we read it in into that buffer.
After that, we call the decompression
session to decode the frame.
Now, note one important thing here.
Because we're working at the low level,
it's our responsibility to make sure
that the decoder is always primed with
the right state for doing the decode
of the frame we're going to give it.
So, if we find that we're not...
[Transcript missing]
When the frames are decoded,
it calls our callback function.
It's called a tracking callback.
It calls us with a flag
that says emitting frame
when it's emitting a frame,
and when that happens,
we wrap that frame with--as a CG image,
and then we use an HIView
utility to draw that CG image
with the correct orientation.
When we get the message that the
Image Compression Manager no longer
needs that source data to be held around,
we can free the buffer.
So that's it for this demo.
Let's go back to slides.
Like I said,
if you use the low-level APIs,
it's your responsibility to ensure that
frames are decoded in the right order,
and that means that if
you're jumping around,
you may need to go back to
the keyframe and decode ahead.
We call this catch-up.
Also,
you may need to handle frame reordering.
Now, in this application,
we are deliberately showing the
frames in decode order because we're
trying to show what the internal
structure of the movie is like.
Not all applications
are going to do that.
Normally you want to extract the frames
and pull them out in display order.
If all you want is pixels,
then you should be using the high-level
API to access the decompressed frames.
And those APIs are visual context APIs.
If you're trying to go
towards OpenGL processing,
then what you want is the
OpenGL texture context.
If you're going to do more
processing on the CPU,
then you want pixel buffers,
and so you want to use the Qt pixel
buffer visual context instead.
It's time to talk about the
low-level image compression APIs.
Once again,
sometimes the high-level APIs for
movie export aren't applicable to you.
For example,
the movie export components always create
a new file to write out their content,
a new movie file,
a new MP4 file or whatever.
Well, if what you're trying to
generate isn't a file,
then that might not be what you want.
So you may have to go down and use the
low-level compression APIs yourself.
There's a new API in QuickTime 7
called the compression session.
And when you create this,
you pass in the width, the height,
the codec type,
and a session options object.
Then you push in pixel buffers with
display times in display order.
Your callback is called with the
encoded frames in decode order,
so frames may be reordered
during compression.
For that reason,
you're not going to get the compressed
frames returned to you immediately,
they might be returned
to you after some delay.
This delay, this queue,
is called a look ahead window.
It also gives the codec an opportunity
for further optimized compression.
So I'm about to show a
demonstration of compressing live
video from a camera to H.264,
similar to what you get in the
QuickTime Player new movie recording
feature in QuickTime Player Pro.
What we're doing is we're going
to have RGB frames stored in pixel
buffers and then we'll pass those
to a compression session which will
return us H.264 frames that we're
going to drop into a new movie.
How do we get those frames?
Well, I took advantage of some sample
code that was already there.
I took the, I think it was the Son of
Mungrab sample code,
which shows you how to use a
sequence grabber to get frames in.
But I adjusted it.
I made it use decompression sessions to
decode the frames from whatever format
you get them from the camera into RGB.
While they're in RGB format,
we can also do other things.
In this sample code I'm showing how
to draw on top of these frames with
a Core Graphics bitmap context.
And for some variety,
we're using-- we're also going
to wrap them as a CG image in
order to display a preview.
Now this isn't the only way to
display previews during Capture.
In fact, it's probably more efficient
to use OpenGL to display them.
There's also some sample code around
that was demonstrated yesterday in
the audio session about Capture.
That shows how to use
OpenGL to display a preview.
So this is an alternative for variety.
So, to help me with this
demo on the demo machine,
I'd like to bring up the QuickTime Mr.
Canada, Tim Cherna.
Big hand please for Mr.
Cherna.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, let's open this movie back in
movie video chart to prove that
the frames are being reordered,
which you can only get if you
use the new compression APIs.
Here's a whole lot of Tims.
And here's a flag.
So you can see that the frames are
being displayed in a different order
from the order they were decoded.
Great.
Let's have a look at the code.
Once again,
we create a decompression session
by constructing a dictionary
that has the width and the
height and the pixel format.
We also indicate that we want this
pixel buffer to be compatible with
Big Map contexts and CG images.
And we provide the image description
which came to us from the sequence
grabber and our tracking callback.
Now we construct the compression
session by first creating
the session options object.
Now if you were looking at this
on your PowerBook at the moment,
you'd probably see a bit more text.
I've removed some of the error
checking just so it fits on the slide.
There's a bunch of options that
it's very important that we set.
We must set the flags to
say that we allow temporal
compression and frame reordering,
or we won't get B-frames.
We set the keyframe interval because
it's nice to know what it can be,
but we're not required to set that.
Because we want to store
the frames in a movie,
we need to know their decode durations,
and so we set the flag that
says durations are needed.
Now we're only going to give
the ICM display timestamps,
but it's going to derive out of
that all of the durations as well.
We tell the ICM it's okay to
drop frames by setting the
allow frame time changes flag,
and we also set the data rate.
Once again,
just like with the decompression session,
we give it a callback that's going
to be called with our encoded frames.
So, the sequence grabber works by calling
the dataproc function that we provide it,
and it calls us with each frame.
Once we've made sure that we
have a compression session
and a decompression session,
we decode these frames.
In this case I'm using an API called
non-scheduled display time,
which is what you'd use if
the frames had been reordered.
Here it's just the way I'm triggering
those frames to be actually displayed,
well, not displayed,
output to our callback function.
So here's the callback function
for the decompression session.
Once again it gives us different flags.
When it tells us it's emitting a frame,
then we're going to
take that pixel buffer,
we're going to draw on top
of it using a bitmap context,
and then we wrap it in a CG image
and place it in an HI image
view inside the preview window.
We also then feed the frame
to the compression session.
The compression session
has another callback.
Here's our callback from that function,
from that session.
Now when we get the first frame,
we have to create a new
media to store the frames.
And it's convenient to do that once
we get the first frame because that's
when we get the image description,
and we can use the information
in the image description to
work out how large what the
dimensions of the media should be.
And then we call
addMediaSampleTo to add samples.
There's actually a utility here I'm
pointing out which adds media samples
directly from the encoded frame object.
When we're told to stop,
when I click the close
button in the window,
or quit, we tell the compression
session to complete any frames
that are still in its queue.
And then we release the object.
So once we've done that,
we have a movie that has a
media that's full of frames,
but the movie's still empty.
Why is that?
Because the edit list
hasn't been touched.
The edit list is still empty.
So it's important to insert all of that
media into the track so that we have an
edit that includes all of that media.
It's easy to forget this, but if you do,
you'll have an empty movie
and you'll know what to do.
Then the only thing left to
do is to write out the movie
header and to close the file.
This sample code uses
the movie storage APIs.
These are a placement
for FS spec based APIs.
We have a--the movie storage APIs use
data references and we have a bunch
of useful utilities to construct
data references from FS refs,
from CFURLs, and from CFStrings,
from other kinds of things as well.
So that's it for that demo.
Let's go back to slides.
And for me, another drink of water.
Okay.
Once again,
in order to get the advantages of H.264,
you must use the new low-level
compression APIs if you're doing
compression at the low level.
The high-level API, the movie export,
already does this for you,
but if you're at the low level,
you've got to use the new APIs.
The good news is that the
new APIs support all codecs,
new and old.
One more point on this.
While we're doing that
real-time compression there,
there's a whole lot of pixel buffers
that are being created and destroyed.
Mapping and unmapping large
pieces of virtual memory involves
some per-page kernel overhead.
And that can be quite a lot when
all those frames are high def and
quite a lot when you're doing 30
of them or 60 of them per second.
So it's important to have an
efficient recycling mechanism so
that you're not constantly mapping
and unmapping memory over and over.
Core Video provides a mechanism
called the Pixel Buffer
Pool which helps reallocate,
helps reuse and recycle
buffers efficiently.
It's recommended that you use it so that,
like I said, you're not always unmapping
and paying kernel overheads.
And this sample code, if you look at it,
you won't actually find the
word "pool" in it at all.
But we are taking advantage of
Pixel Buffer Pools in this sample
code because decompression sessions
use Pixel Buffer Pools to create the
buffers that they return us back.
If you take that code and you
change it and you just take the
compression session stuff with you,
then you should consider using
a pixel buffer pool to create
your source pixel buffers.
There's actually utility as
part of compression sessions
that helps you do that.
So,
One more thing, one more piece,
we're going to talk about writing codecs.
If you write a codec,
generally that means that you
need to write two components,
an image compressor and
an image decompressor.
Now we have a brand new,
bold new image compressor API for
components in QuickTime 7.
We have made more modest changes to
the decompressor API in QuickTime 7.
And I'm going to show you
on the demo machine a brief
survey of the example codec.
Now this is a well
commented piece of code.
It should show you how to
use the interface well.
But it's not a very good codec.
A better spin?
You can do better.
It's a very simplistic
encoding algorithm.
It just encodes the high bits first,
and when it runs out of bits, it stops.
Well, one benefit of this is it's
very easy to see the loss.
Loss means you're rounding
down by some amount,
and that means that images get darker,
or because we're doing it in YUV,
greener.
So let me show you how to use this.
I've already built this and so I'm going
to install it in library/quicktime.
Library/quicktime is the
place where you'll normally
install your codec components.
They can also be installed in the
home directory/library/quicktime.
So now that I've installed this,
I can open up one of those
clips that we saw before.
Here's Jim.
This time.
Okay.
I like it better when he's smiling.
So now that I've added that codec,
Assuming that I quit the player,
let's quit the player.
You have to quit the player
and now when I relaunch it,
it'll see the new codec.
If you don't see your new codec,
try quitting.
Let's export again.
There it is, example IPB.
So, at top quality we don't see any
loss as we drag things down.
Loss means dark and green and
brooding and kind of messed up.
Well, you can do better, like I said.
Well, I've already compressed this one.
I cooked one before the show.
And here it is.
You saw a flicker there.
The better encoded
frames are the B frames.
The ones that look poorer
are the I frames because they
had to start from scratch.
The B frames could use the other
frames as a better starting point.
We could take a look at
this in movie video chart.
If I quit it,
you can take a look at this movie
video chart and you can do all
of this yourself and confirm to
yourself that it's using B-frames.
You can see the frames
are reordered there.
Okay,
let's have a quick go with the source.
Now, I've separated out the
naive encoding logic,
which is in these naive files here.
You'll replace those with
your very smart algorithms.
I've separated that from the interface.
Let's look at the important functions
first in the new compressor API.
There are three main functions.
In Prepare to Compress Frames you
return another dictionary that
describes the pixel buffers that
you want to get as your source.
For example, you want to say what the
width and height you want are,
and you can ask for extra pixels
to be allocated for scratch
memory on the right and bottom.
In this case we allocate memory to
round up to 16 by 16 macro blocks.
We can actually now allocate
extra memory on the top and left,
which may help if you're doing something
called unrestricted motion compensation.
Which means you can have
motion vectors from outside.
It's one of those geeky codec things.
You can also ask for the bytes per row
to be a multiple of a particular number.
If you're using AlteVec or SSE code,
it's likely that you want to
ask for at least a multiple
of 16 for the bytes per row.
Another thing you can ask for
is a list of input pixel formats
that you want to support.
And this codec asks for our
standard YCBCR 422 codec,
which is pixel format type,
which is called 2VUI.
This is a new feature
for the new Codec API.
Previously you had to
implement RGB input.
We were sick of everyone having to
write their own RGB to YUV converters,
so now we provide some standard ones.
Another element that goes
in this dictionary here,
we're saying what the gamma level is.
We ask for the video gamma level.
Also, the color profiles,
in particular the YCBCR to
RGB matrix used for standard def
and high def video are different.
So we specify which of
those we're going to use.
We're using the standard def
ones in this example codec.
Apart from creating that dictionary,
prepare to compress frames is also
a place where it's appropriate
to set any extra information
on the image description.
Here we're setting the
gamma level to 2.2.
The encode frame function is
called for each source frame.
You don't have to encode it immediately.
You can build up a
little queue of frames.
In this case, we're using a C array
to store that queue,
but you can store it however you want.
You can use core foundation arrays
because these objects are core
foundation retain counted objects.
You can use STL if you like.
I don't care.
But you probably want to have some
threshold beyond which you decide that,
okay, I've got enough frames,
I'll start encoding,
or else you could end up starting
to swap the frames out because
you'll have so many sitting there.
So encodeFrame is called for each
source frame in display order.
CompleteFrame is called to say
it's time to decode a given frame.
You don't have to return that one first,
but you must emit it and encode it,
or drop it, before this function returns.
So there's a function here that
decides which frame to encode next.
I'm not going to go into that in detail.
I'll just say that it does
implement an MPEG-2 IPB pattern.
You could modify it to support
other patterns if you want
that kind of flexibility.
When you decide it is
time to encode a frame,
you create a buffer with the ICM encoded
frame create mutable function,
and you pass it the worst case,
the largest data size you might need.
Then you fill in as much as you need.
[Transcript missing]
The other choice is that
you could drop a frame.
This codec doesn't actually drop frames,
but if you look in the header
file you'll see how to do that.
Let's have a look at the important
functions in the decompressor API.
There are five functions
that are important.
In initialize,
You set some basic flags to describe
the basic characteristics of your codec.
In this case we say that
we support B frames.
This is out of order display times.
We also say that we
are multi-buffer aware.
We get high performance playback
if we are able to decode each
frame to a separate buffer.
If you don't,
you'll lose some performance because
we may need to make extra copies of the
same buffer to upload them to OpenGL,
for example.
You set some basic flags to describe
the basic characteristics of your codec.
In this case we say that
we support B frames.
This is out of order display times.
You can also ask for extra scratch space
at the bottom and right of the buffer.
We rounded up to a multiple of 16 by 16.
This is also a convenient time
to allocate internal buffers.
In the beginBand function,
for most codecs,
band is equivalent to frame,
so you could think of this as beginFrame.
In the beginBand function,
it's time to classify the frame.
You need to read as much of your
frame header as is necessary to
classify the frame as a keyframe,
a difference frame, or a droppable frame.
This is how the Image Compression
Manager is able to know which frames
to drop when we are low on CPU.
The DecodeBand function is new for
QuickTime 7 in order to support
B-frames and frame reordering.
It's called to decode a frame that
isn't the next frame to display.
It's up to you.
You can also choose to have it
called for all frames if you want.
Finally, the drawband function is called
when it's time for you to output
a frame to an output buffer.
So that's that sample code.
We'll return to slides and recap this.
Three important functions
for the compressor:
Prepare to compress frames,
which is where you describe
the source pixel buffers.
Encode frame,
which is called with each source
frame so you can put it in your queue.
Complete frame,
time to put up or shut up.
Five important functions
for the decompressor:
Initialize, report basic characteristics
about your codec and what it does.
Preflight, where you negotiate the
output pixel format.
BeginBand, where you classify the
frame as a keyframe,
a droppable, whatever.
DecodeBand, where you decode a frame
to an internal buffer.
And DrawBand, where you write a frame to
an external pixel buffer.
So it's now time for the
Thread Safety Pledge.
If you would all please
raise your right hand.
Repeat after me:
I promise that every new component
I write shall be thread safe.
It's the 21st century.
It's time that we were all
writing thread-safe code.
Avoid using unprotected global variables.
Use the instance storage
to store your state.
Avoid thread-unsafe APIs like
the old resource manager calls.
Test your codec to make sure that
it's thread-safe and then ship it
with the component thread-safe flag.
This excludes UI.
None of our UI frameworks
are actually thread-safe.
We're referring--the thread-safety
flag refers to the core processing
that your component does.
There's a good tech note on thread-safe
programming in QuickTime that
I recommend all of you have a look at,
especially if you're component authors.
And another topic about components,
you are a child of the universe.
And your component should be too.
Now Rosetta does not include a mixed mode
the way we have with 68K and PowerPC.
If you're inside a PowerPC application
you will only be able to
use PowerPC components.
Intel based applications will only be
able to see Intel based components.
So it's important that your
component is universal and
contains both kinds of code.
There are some instructions
in the universal binary page.
They give you a fairly
aggressive approach,
a very clever way of doing things so that
you will change the resource template
dynamically based on what platforms,
what architectures you are compiling
for with your Xcode project.
It isn't necessary to do that,
all of that macro cleverness,
if you just want to always ship,
always build universal components.
In that case all you have to do is put
both platform codes in the platform list.
If you remember back with 68K and
PowerPC components it's just like that.
So, in summary, wake up.
We've looked at a whole
bunch of sample code.
We've looked at the high-level
APIs for movie editing and for export.
We've looked at the low-level
APIs which give you access to level
sample information for decompressing
frames and compressing them.
And we've shown you the new APIs and the
new example for writing your own codecs.
If you use the high-level APIs,
all of that B-frame trickiness
will be hidden from you.
Or you can choose to use the
low-level APIs and QuickTime will
expose it to you in all its glory.
We have a lab where there are going
to be lots of QuickTime engineers who
are waiting to solve your problems.
Not just QuickTime,
but also a bunch of other
graphics and media engineers.
You are here, and if you go out there
and go around the corner,
around the back,
you'll find the lab and it's
open until some hour each day.